# Phase 3 CLI+ORM Project

Interact with the space database to explore planets and the robots that inhabit them.


## Directory Structure:

```console
.
├── Pipfile
├── Pipfile.lock
├── README.md
└── lib
    ├── models
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── planet.py
        └── robot.py
    ├── cli.py
    ├── debug.py
    ├── helpers.py
    └── seed.py
```

---


## Generating The Environment

Run the commands:

```console
pipenv install
pipenv shell
python lib/seed.py
python lib/cli.py
```

---


## Generating Your CLI

A CLI is, simply put, an interactive script and prompts the user and performs
operations based on user input.

The project template has a sample CLI in `lib/cli.py` that looks like this:

```py
# lib/cli.py

from helpers import (
    exit_program,
    helper_1
)


def main():
    while True:
        menu()
        choice = input("> ")
        if choice == "0":
            exit_program()
        elif choice == "1":
            helper_1()
        else:
            print("Invalid choice")


def menu():
    print("Please select an option:")
    print("0. Exit the program")
    print("1. Some useful function")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

The helper functions are located in `lib/helpers.py`:

```py
# lib/helpers.py

def helper_1():
    print("Performing useful function#1.")


def exit_program():
    print("Goodbye!")
    exit()
```

You can run the template CLI with `python lib/cli.py`, or include the shebang
and make it executable with `chmod +x`. The template CLI will ask for input, do
some work, and accomplish some sort of task.

Past that, CLIs can be whatever you'd like, as long as you follow the project
requirements.

Of course, you will update `lib/cli.py` with prompts that are appropriate for
your application, and you will update `lib/helpers.py` to replace `helper_1()`
with a useful function based on the specific problem domain you decide to
implement, along with adding other helper functions to the module.

In the `lib/models` folder, you should rename `model_1.py` with the name of a
data model class from your specific problem domain, and add other classes to the
folder as needed. The file `lib/models/__init__.py` has been initialized to
create the necessary database constants. You need to add import statements to
the various data model classes in order to use the database constants.

You are also welcome to implement a different module and directory structure.
However, your project should be well organized, modular, and follow the design
principal of separation of concerns, which means you should separate code
related to:

- User interface
- Data persistence
- Problem domain rules and logic

---


### What Goes into a README?

This README serves as a template. Replace the contents of this file to describe
the important files in your project and describe what they do. Each Python file
that you edit should get at least a paragraph, and each function should be
described with a sentence or two.

Describe your actual CLI script first, and with a good level of detail. The rest
should be ordered by importance to the user. (Probably functions next, then
models.)

Screenshots and links to resources that you used throughout are also useful to
users and collaborators, but a little more syntactically complicated. Only add
these in if you're feeling comfortable with Markdown.

---

## Conclusion

Overall, completing this project has given me a lot of insight into the basics of CLIs and ORMs. Hopefully, someone else can use it to help them out too!

---

## Resources

- [Markdown Cheat Sheet](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/)
- [Geeks for Geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/)
- [w3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/python/default.asp)